Contributing file updates, remove old development file (#4246)
OAI/OpenAPI-Specification: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contribute to the OpenAPI Specification

## Key information

This project is covered by our [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification?tab=coc-ov-file#readme).
All participants are expected to read and follow this code.

No changes, however trivial, are ever made to the contents of published specifications (the files in the `versions/` folder).
Exceptions may be made when links to external URLs have been changed by a 3rd party, in order to keep our documents accurate.

The specification is in the file `spec/oas.md`.

> 

Author: I consider this to be key information but I'll expand it to make it clear that this file is only on branches.

The [spec site](https://spec.openapis.org) is the source of truth for the OpenAPI specification as it contains all the citations and author credits (the markdown in this repository was previously the authoritative version until 2024).

The OpenAPI project is almost entirely staffed by volunteers.
Please be patient with the people in this project, who all have other jobs and are active here because we believe this project has a positive impact in the world.

### Active branches

The current active specification releases are:

| Version | Branch | Notes |
| ------- | ------ | ----- |
| 3.1.2 | `v3.1-dev` | active patch release line |
| 3.2.0 | `v3.2-dev` | minor release in development |

> | 4.0.0 | [OAI/sig-moonwalk](https://github.com/OAI/sig-moonwalk) | [discussions only](https://github.com/OAI/sig-moonwalk/discussions) |

Author: This is good information but I don't think file location information is best placed here, I'll move it.

# Contribute to the OpenAPI Specification

## Key information

This project is covered by our [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification?tab=coc-ov-file#readme).
All participants are expected to read and follow this code.

No changes, however trivial, are ever made to the contents of published specifications (the files in the `versions/` folder).
Exceptions may be made when links to external URLs have been changed by a 3rd party, in order to keep our documents accurate.

Published versions of the specification are in the `versions/` folder.
The under-development versions of the specification are in the file `spec/oas.md` on the appropriately-versioned branch.

> For example, work on the next patch release for 3.2 is on `v3.2-dev` in the file `spec/oas.md`.

Reviewer: Can we use 3.1 as the example here?  The next 3.2 release is 3.2.0, which we would not normally refer to as a "patch release"?  Or just change "patch release" to "release."

Author: My logic here was that almost everything needs to go into 3.2 (because we don't update 3.1) and we don't want to update this doc every time so this was the most future-proof option .... I think removing "patch" totally works though!

Author: Updated, I _think_ it makes more sense now.

Closing issues is a reversible action, and it is always acceptable to comment and explain (politely) why an issue should not have been closed.

### Labels

We make extensive use of labels.
The main categories are:

- [Housekeeping](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/labels/Housekeeping) for meetings, project logistics, etc.
- [approved pr port](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/labels/approved%20pr%20port) for pull requests that repeat a change from one version to another
- most other tags are used to group similar or related issues into topic areas; this list is ever-changing

Labels related to [issue automation](#appendix-issue-automation)

- [Needs attention](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/labels/Needs%20attention) automated tag when an issue is updated
- [Needs author feedback](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/labels/Needs%20author%20feedback) used to indicate that more information is needed from the issue creator
- [No recent activity](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/labels/No%20recent%20activity) if no information is received, the issue is marked for closure (automatic after 30 days)

### Milestones

> We use milestones in GitHub to plan what should be included in future releases.

Reviewer: Specifically, use the oldest-release-line milestone that is relevant if we are working on multiple releases at once.

> Issues and pull requests should both be added to the milestone we expect they will be released in.

Reviewer: I made a point to put PRs in milestones, and then when we released 3.0.4 and 3.1.1 I realized that you can look them up by target branch, which for us corresponds directly to releases.  So maybe we don't need to put milestones on PRs after all?  They should definitely go on issues, though.

Author: I think we can leave this instruction as-is for now, it's not a problem if we do milestone the PRs but it's a good tip about the branches! And it can be a nice visual indicators on the PRs as well if do end up holding them open for a while.

Any changes that aren't ready in time for release should be moved to the next milestone or untagged.

The milestones and items assigned to them are under constant review and subject to change.

### Projects

The OpenAPI Initiative uses GitHub Projects to manage work _outside_ of the specification development process.  There are currently two active projects:

* [Contributor Guidance](https://github.com/orgs/OAI/projects/5/views/1)
* [Automation & Infrastructure](https://github.com/orgs/OAI/projects/4/views/1)

## Pull requests

> [!NOTE]
> Since the 3.0.4 and 3.1.1 releases (October 2024), the OAS is developed in the `src/oas.md` file.

> > Check the [Branches](#branches) section for more information about the updated branching strategy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Check the [Appendix: Branch Strategy](#appendix-branch-strategy) for more information about the updated branching strategy.
```

Changes to the next version of the specification are welcome and can be proposed by anyone.

For large changes that will need discussion, please use the [Proposal process](#propose-a-specification-change).

> For other changes, we recommend [opening an issue](#issues) first, so that you can get some feedback and any extra input you need before spending a lot of time on something.

Reviewer: Should GitHub discussions be mentioned there?  Earlier parts of this document imply that big things go to discussions, actionable thing go to issues, and the formal proposal process seems to be a way to bridge the gap by formalizing a discussion that might not be ready for individual issues yet.  At least that's what I get from it?

Author: I've structured the mentions of discussions in the document something like this:
 - under "how to contribute": use discussions to give us some feedback or answer a question
 - in the discussions section, all about discussions
 - in the issues section: for big changes, use a proposal
 - in this section (pull requests): for big changes, use a proposal
 - in the proposals section: start the proposal process with a discussion

I'm quite comfortable with the structure as it is, trying to base it around a pyramid of user engagement where first they are visiting, then they are participating, then they are contributing, then they are re-engineering. I'm not wedded to it though if there's somewhere else we should mention it! I'm also not too worried if people open an issue when they should have used a discussion - engagement is good and there's nothing irreversible!

Schema changes are made on the same branch, but can be released independently.
When making a specification change for a new minor or major release that has a schema impact, including the schema change in the PR is preferred.
Patch releases cannot contain changes that _require_ a schema update.

### Use a fork

All work **MUST be done on a fork** and be submitted as a pull request.

> ### Target the earliest active `*-dev` branch

Reviewer: earliest relevant active

Author: You are right of course, but it's already the longest title in the document .... I do have the working emphasised in the next line, could that be good enough?

Branch from and submit pull requests to the a branch from the _earliest relevant and [active](#active-branches)_ `vX.Y-dev` branch.
For example, if a change applies to both 3.1 and 3.2, the PR would go to the `v3.1-dev` branch, which will be merged up to `v3.2-dev` before the next 3.2 release.
All changes to the specification must conform to the [style guide](./style-guide.md).

Both specification and schema changes follow this approach.

For changes to repository files that affect all versions, use the `main` branch.

> This might apply to, for example, Markdown files, automation, and scripts.

Reviewer: There might be things we want to start on `dev`, but I'm just saying that to make a note of it- I don't think there is anything to say about it yet.  I think we just need to figure out a bit more what counts as infrastructure that is not needed on `main` (and shouldn't clutter it up) vs information that should be on `main` as the most public and obvious place to find things ilke this document.

For all pull requests, if they should not be merged yet for any reason (they depend on something else, you would like feedback from a specific reviewer), mark them as draft and they will not be merged while in that state.
Draft pull requests can still be reviewed while in draft state.

## Reviewers

> [!NOTE]
> See also the detailed team outlines in the [roles section](#roles).

All pull requests must be reviewed and approved by one member of the TSC or Maintainer teams.
Reviews from other contributors are always welcome.

> Additionally, all pull requests that change the specification file `spec/oas.md` must be approved by two TSC members.

Reviewer: What about PRs that publish to the spec site but don't change the spec document?

Author: I don't think that is a special case, it just needs a review by TSC or maintainer. Happy to add an exception if there's a rule here that I didn't know about.

## Release Process and Scope

This section relates to the 3.x versions only.

### Minor Releases

Our roadmap for 3.x releases is community-driven, meaning the specification is open for proposed additions by anyone (see [Propose a Specification Change](#propose-a-specification-change)), in addition to the issues already on the project backlog.

Changes in minor releases (such as 3.2, 3.3) meet the following criteria:

* Are **backwards-compatible** and be reasonably easy to implement in tooling that already supports the previous minor version.
  For example, new optional fields can be added.
* Drive quality-of-life improvements to support how OpenAPI is used by practitioners, so that OpenAPI evolves to continue to meet user needs.
  For example, adding fields to support changes in other standards, or adopting common `x-*` extension fields into the specification.
* Bring the future closer by making changes that are in line with future 3.x releases and the planned OpenAPI 4.x (Moonwalk) specification as the details of that become available.
* Make the specification document clearer or easier to understand.

> A minor release is due when there are some meaningful features (including one or a small number of headline features).

Reviewer: I don't think we defined "headline feature" although it's fairly obvious.  Just commenting in case we want to give it a definition- I'm fine with it as-is, though.

The specification is very widely adopted, and there is an appropriately high bar for wide appeal and due scrutiny as a result.
We do not accept changes lightly (but we will consider any that we can).

Small changes are welcome as pull requests.

Bigger changes require a more formal process.

1. Start a [discussion](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/discussions) of type "Enhancements".
   The discussion entry must include some use cases, your proposed solution and the alternatives you have considered.
   If there is engagement and support for the proposal over time, then it can be considered as a candidate to move to the next stage.

2. It really helps to see the proposed change in action.
   Start using it as a `x-*` extension if that's appropriate, or try to bring other evidence of your proposed solution being adopted.

3. If you are adding support for something from another specification (such as OAuth), please point to implementations of that
   specification so that we can understand how, and to what degree, it is being used.

4. If the suggested change has good support, you will be asked to create a formal proposal.

>    Use the [template in the proposals directory](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/tree/main/proposals), copy it to a new file, and complete it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Use the [template in the proposals directory](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/tree/main/proposals/2019-01-01-Proposal-Template.md), copy it to a new file, and complete it.
```

Author: I'll skip this, people should look in the directory and find a template. The current one has some problems and is stupidly named, so just directing people to the directory means this file won't be outdated if I ever fix that problem!
